# barely CMS

barely CMS aims to be a minimal CMS, allowing users the rapid development and deployment of static (or mostly static) websites. Flatfiles are utilized instead of a traditional database for ease of access and portability. barely will run as a standalone python CLI application and should run on Linux, Windows, and Mac. With it, rapid development of customer websites should be possible.

To start with a new project, users will be able to leverage build-in blueprints for a quick start. Alternatively, users can also create the necessary files and directories by hand, and integrate barely at a later point. Users will also be able to export their current project as a blueprint at any point.

To use barely, the user will have two possibilitites. Either they can make the desired changes to style, stucture or content of the site first, then call on barely to translate those changes to a static website; or they can start barely in live mode, whereupon a rudimentary webserver is started and changes to the template files, assets and content will immediately be mirrored on that webserver.

As a convenience to the user, two types of pages are understood by barely: regular pages, consisting of exactly one content file and a utilized template, and modular pages, which utilize a template, and include any number of ordered sub-content-pages, each with their own utilized template.

Furthermore, users should be able to utilize plugins. barely will provide hooks at selected points in the program to allow user plugins to further manipulate the static output.

After the user has finished making changes, these changes will be treated according to a user-defined publishing pipeline. barely will supply that pipe, but the steps of the pipeline will be supplied by plugins.

Lastly a backup and restore functionality is included in barely. It is not meant as a replacement for, e.g., a version management software, but can still help in preventing data loss or aid in rolling back unwanted changes.

Some features are better suited as a plugin rather than as part of the core program, yet are important enough to be included by default. These plugins are:
- Forms: specify forms in yaml
- SASS/SCSS support
- Minimizer: minimize CSS, JS and images
- Created-LastEdited: automatically insert tags containing the edited / created dates
- Collections: find other pages based on various criteria and use them on a page
- Gallery Collection: find all images in a specified location and make them available to the template
- Multilang: Ability to offer a webpage in more than one language
- Publishing options: various steps for the publishing pipeline (SFTP, Symlinks,...)
- Backup options: in addition to internal backups; e.g. git


## Requirements
- R01: the user can initialize a blank project or an existing blueprint.
- R02: the user can store the current project as a new blueprint.

- R03: the user can issue barely to (re-)build the entire project at any time.
- R04: the user can issue barely to start a live server, whereupon any changes will directly be reflected in the users webbrowser.
- R05: before starting the live environment or a complete build, the project will be backuped.
- R06: barely will use the plugins the user specifies.
- R07: after exiting the live environment or finishing a complete build, the project will be published as specified by the user.

- R08: the user can trigger backups of the current project.
- R09: the user can trigger restorations of previous versions of the current project.

## Assumptions
- users have the appropriate permissions to work in the devroot, webroot an backup directories
- users are able to use CLI applications and text editing software
- only one instance of barely is running at any given time, with exactly one user
- if the user wants to utilize the live preview function, they have access to a supported webbrowser
- plugins conform to standards set by barely
- users conform to project guidelines set by barely

## Facts
- barely is a standalone python CLI application
- the entirety of barelys behavior, including plugins and their behavior, is configurable in a single location.
- a regular webpage has a unique URI, consists of some content, one template, optional yaml configuration and an arbitrary number of assets/ressources it makes use of
- a modular webpage has all the same things as a regular webpage, and additionally, an arbitrary amount of subpages, each with their own template, yaml, and assets
- a barely project is defined in its entirety by the contents of its devroot folder, and with it, the contents of the devroot folder can be re-calculated at any time
- barely generates static websites. No Server interaction is implemented by default.

# Context Diagram
[Context Diagram](diagrams/context.png)
